The quest for Beans

She sighed as she looked out the window at the thick smog. It is so depressing outside, she thought, as she reminisced about a time when she would gaze out the window and see the beautiful city of Beijing. Now, she can barely see the buildings around her from the high-rise apartment. Suddenly, she turned to her refrigerator and opened it up only to find that it was empty. She really wanted a can of baked beans, so it seemed a grocery run was in order, so she grabbed her purse, donned her walking shoes, and slipped out the door.

On her way to the grocery store she could not help but notice how difficult It was to breath outside, or how drab the city looked when viewing it through the veil of the gray smog. These thoughts and observations made her remember better times when she was young, and her mother would take her to parks to play. A time when the sun would shine on the city sidewalks, and the air was easy to breathe. Her attention was suddenly stolen away, towards a group of protesters waving around signs on the walkway.

They were surrounded by passersby’s that had stopped to listen to what they had to say. She walked towards them, scrutinizing their signs as she listened to discussing the current air quality and environmental state with the crowd. It was hard to get a read on exactly what was on the signs through the large crowd of people, but she was able to make out one that had “buy low carbon products” written on it. Do they really think that buying low carbon products will help the situation she thought to herself as she walked past?

She found herself wandering closer to the group, interested in what was being said.

“Look around you, the air is making us miserable, and many are getting sick from its toxicity”

She took this advice and glanced at the crowd around her, there wasn’t a single smiling face around and many had masks on to stave off the smog that choked the air. A tear ran down her face as she looked at the sickly crowd. Everyone is suffering, she thought as she stepped away from the crowd and continued down the walkway.

As she got closer to the grocery store an older woman came up to her and began to speak.

“Hey, I saw you listening to the protesters early. That was some pretty eye-opening stuff they said”

Caught off guard, she stammered to get a reply out, “Ye - Yea, listening to them and seeing all the people around them really made me think”

“Yea, me too,” said the stranger.

“The thing is, I don’t have a clue on what I could do to help the situation” this remark made her sad as she thought about her helplessness, what could one person even do for this situation. Her thoughts were once again interrupted by the stranger

“You know, the best place to start would probably be shopping habits. next time you go shopping keep today in mind and I'm sure you’ll be surprised by what you can find”

She said her goodbyes to the stranger and continued towards the store. The conversation left her hopeful and with a little more spring in her step, hopeful at the idea of discovering a way for her to help. She approached the large boxy grocery store and grabbed a shopping cart to load her items in. She walked around the store looking for any inclination that the stranger was right with her advice. Eventually she arrived at the isle that had her favorite brand of beans. about to grab the can off the shelf, her eyes caught another can that had a strange label on it.

She turned her attention to this strange label and noticed that it was an emission's label. It gave information on how much energy was used to make the can of beans and how environmentally friendly

it is. This was when she realized what the stranger was talking about. Using information like this she could make a small difference. Maybe even convince others to try and change their purchasing habits as well. As she walked around the store, she found that many of her items had sustainable versions. After grabbing the last item, she toted her cart up to the cashier and began setting her items on the table. Curious to see what the price of her sustainable purchases she peered at the display and watched it tick up as the cashier scanned her items. The final total was surprising only a small amount more than her usual bill.

As her feet slapped the pavement on her walk home, she couldn’t help but smile. She started her little grocery run feeling down and helpless but now she has a small way that she can help. She began wondering at what other ways she might be able to live sustainably and maybe how she could convince some friends and family to go down the same route. After a satisfying turn of events, she could say that the day turned out all right.

Authors Statement

In the begging of writing this short story I wanted to write something that made the reader think about sustainable living and it’s impacts. I also wanted to present the ideas of my project in a way that would be interesting to read. To do this, I used the research conducted for my Project 2 and then found ways to present the ideas of the research in my story. The most prominent example of this is the Labels that the main character spots on the can of beans. Throughout this process I learned quite a bit about writing short stories. I Think that the biggest thing is communicating ideas throughout the short story. When I first began writing I had no idea how I was going to get my message out in this form but by the end I had found ways to show my ideas. The other big thing I learned is how doing research on a setting

and finding a good setting can help with short story writing. This took form in my story with Beijing being the setting. Beijing has air quality issues which results in gray smog so I felt it would make a good place for my story. Throughout this writing I fell that I was able to stick to the conventions of writing short stories well. My stories Length is short and there are only 2 characters throughout the whole thing. I hope that the readers of this story expand their knowledge of sustainable living and maybe looking into it more than they normally would. In the end, I fell like I’ve met my goal, but I know that I could have done better. The end of the story could have been improved but I’m not 100% sure how. If I had more time to work on this story, I would have found ways to make the ending more interesting, potentially being more descriptive of the environment. In the end, I feel like I’ve learned a lot from this project and I hope to be able to use what I learned in future projects.